docs: zkapp and o1js FAQ starter set (#677)
o1-labs/docs2: docs/zkapps/faq.mdx

---
title: zkApps FAQ
sidebar_label: FAQ
description: Answers to common questions about zkApps (zero knowledge apps), the Mina Protocol smart contracts powered by zero knowledge proofs.
keywords:
  - FAQ
  - smart contract
  - zkApps
---

# zkApps FAQ

Answers to common questions about zkApps (zero knowledge apps), the Mina Protocol smart contracts powered by zero knowledge proofs.

### How do I stay up to date with zkApps?

Follow the official O(1) Labs channels:

- [Twitter/X @o1_labs](https://twitter.com/o1_labs)
- [Blog](https://blog.o1labs.org/)

### Where can I ask questions and contribute answers?

[Mina Protocol Discord](https://discord.gg/minaprotocol) is the most popular place where Mina enthusiasts and technical contributors gather. 

Join us in these zkApps channels:

* [#zkapps-developers](https://discord.com/channels/484437221055922177/915745847692636181) to meet other developers building zkApps with o1js
* [#zkapps-general](https://discord.com/channels/484437221055922177/910549624413102100) to ask general questions about zkApps, how to use a zkApp, and so on

> * [#zkapps-questions](https://discord.com/channels/484437221055922177/1047214314349658172) to ask zkApps-related questions and see Q&A history

Reviewer: @barriebyron These channels are also relevant for o1js as it's the defacto place for developers to ask questions (not just about zkapps)

Author: per our convo we will combine into a single FAQ for zkApps and o1js

* [#zkapps-general](https://discord.com/channels/484437221055922177/910549624413102100) to ask general questions about zkApps, how to use a zkApp, and so on
* [#zkapps-questions](https://discord.com/channels/484437221055922177/1047214314349658172) to ask zkApps-related questions and see Q&A history

### What files do I use to write zkApps?

There are many approaches to building a smart contract. For the zkApp tutorials, most examples follow this convention:

- `index.ts`: The entry point of your project that imports all smart contract classes you want access to and exports them to your smart contract. 
- `main.ts`: How you interact with the smart contract. For example, the `import` statement brings in objects and methods from `o1js` that you use to interact with your smart contract. 
- `<yourcontract>.ts`: Your specific smart contract logic. 

### Where can I find the o1js API reference documentation?

See the autogenerated [o1js reference](/zkapps/o1js-reference) documentation with doc comments, like the [Provable](/zkapps/o1js-reference/interfaces/Provable) module.

### What is ZkProgram?

> The API for writing non-Mina related provable code. A ZkProgram is similar to a zkApp smart contract, but isn't tied to an on-chain account. 

Reviewer: A general purpose API for creating zk proofs.

> The API for writing non-Mina related provable code. A ZkProgram is similar to a zkApp smart contract, but isn't tied to an on-chain account. 

Author: ```suggestion
A general-purpose API for creating zk proofs. A ZkProgram is similar to a zkApp smart contract but isn't tied to an on-chain account. 
```
